PRELUDE la la
la la la
la la

Achilles interrupted him. "I should be a mean coward," he cried, "were
added text below
I to give in to you in all things. Order other people about, not me,
for I shall obey no longer. Furthermore I say--and lay my saying to
your heart--I shall fight neither you nor any man about this girl, for
those that take were those also that gave. But of all else that is at
my ship you shall carry away nothing by force. Try, that others may
see; if you do, my spear shall be reddened with your blood."

Sequel
But the son of Peleus again began railing at the son of Atreus, for he
was still in a rage. "Wine-bibber," he cried, "with the face of a dog
and the heart of a hind, you never dare to go out with the host in
fight, nor yet with our chosen men in ambuscade. You shun this as you
do death itself. You had rather go round and rob his prizes from any
man who contradicts you. You devour your people, for you are king over
a feeble folk; otherwise, son of Atreus, henceforward you would insult
no man. Therefore I say, and swear it with a great oath--nay, by this
my sceptre which shalt sprout neither leaf nor shoot, nor bud anew from
the day on which it left its parent stem upon the mountains--for the
axe stripped it of leaf and bark, and now the sons of the Achaeans bear
it as judges and guardians of the decrees of heaven--so surely and
solemnly do I swear that hereafter they shall look fondly for Achilles
and shall not find him. In the day of your distress, when your men fall
dying by the murderous hand of Hector, you shall not know how to help
them, and shall rend your heart with rage for the hour when you offered
insult to the bravest of the Achaeans."